Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Allo?
- Hi, Tom.
- Good morning.
Hello, Jaques.
Oh, my God. Tom!
Okay, take cover, take cover now!
How many ways in and
out of the seventh floor?
- What is going on?
- Someone is shooting
from the seventh floor! How many ways?
Just the stairwell and the lift, that's it.
Kill the lift. Call the police,
tell them there is a mass
shooting at this address.
Shouldn't you just wait for...
Police! I am armed!
This is Probationary Officer Annette...
Know the biggest mistake a rookie makes?
When they draw their weapon,
they only see what's
directly in front of it.
It's called tunnel vision.
What time is her mother coming?
She said she would be on
the 5:00 p.m. from Paris.
Imagine how hard that trip will be.
Probably easier than her last trip.
Well, on the last trip
at least there was hope.
What is it about morning in The Hague, huh?
The light looks like a Vermeer.
Oh, you know Vermeer?
Does that surprise you, Louis?
Kind of.
What's in the box?
Anne-Marie's things.
Don't forget that.
Actually, I thought... you might want it.
Yeah, I'd like that. Thanks.
- Carlton, do you have a minute?
- Yeah.
Hickman wants her nameplate?
It's not so surprising.
Good morning, all.
Hey, glad to officially have you on board.
- Glad to be on board.
- Welcome.
Grazie, Eva. Grazie mille.
You speak Italian?
And Dutch, and German, and English.
What about Irish?
Sorry, nobody understands Irish.
Amen.
Is this me?
Uh... yeah. Yeah, it's yours.
This the sniper in Paris yesterday morning?
Five dead, including two police officers,
a young rookie with her training
officer having breakfast.
Wrong place, wrong time?
Appears that way.
- This what you wanted to show me?
- No.
It's about Rebecca.
She's going to be our prosecutor.
I hear she was good.
Very good.
- Is she ready?
- Yes. I think so.
- Major?
- Yeah?
I'm sorry. Dorn is here with
Moreau, the Paris detective?
- I'm coming.
- Okay.
If I can be of help, you let me know.
Thank you very much.
Here. Louis, Hickman, you recognize Moreau?
He's just come from that
horrific sniper shooting in Paris
to request our help tracking the shooter.
There was a note left by the shooter.
The original is being tested for evidence,
but I... I brought you a photocopy.
"The proles will refuse
to bellyfeel blackwhite.
One hundred million Euro by Thursday,
or five more will die somewhere in Europe.
You cannot stop me. W.S."
By Thursday? May I?
Tomorrow.
"Bellyfeel blackwhite?"
What the hell does that mean?
It's Newspeak,
which is, of course, the language
that George Orwell created for 1984.
What does it mean?
Ah, well, in Oldspeak,
it... roughly it means,
"You can't pull the wool
over the peoples' eyes."
In this particular instance, I...
I think it means that instinctively
people will reject the
notion that black is white.
Black is white?
It's one of the central
premises of the book.
The authoritarian government insists that
citizens unquestioningly believe
things that are inherently untrue.
Such as black is white.
He signs it "W.S."
Well, because the main character
in the novel is Winston Smith.
Wasn't Winston Smith a
bureaucrat? A functionary?
I don't remember him being violent at all.
No, he wasn't. And certainly,
he didn't kill anyone,
and of all people, he would not
be participant in the
multiple targeting at random.
Well, then, maybe he's just
doing this to throw us off.
A killer like this usually
doesn't do anything without reason.
He can't honestly believe anyone's
going to give him that money.
Moreau, has he been in contact
with anyone since he left that note?
No. No one.
Well, then, he's not
expecting to get any money.
He's using this as a ruse
to keep us from understanding
what his true goal is.
Which starts with understanding 1984.
The square, it must have
more than five people in it.
Why'd he stop shooting?
Initially, we thought
people must have run away.
But there was only one shot heard.
- One shot that killed five people?
- No, no,
but there was only one shot heard.
And then the female officer ran
across the square into the building.
- She took a grand risk.
- Is that when he shot her?
She wasn't shot.
There was a confrontation
at the site of the shooting.
He pushed her out the window,
seven floors to her death.
So you're taking the case?
Yes. But I have a question.
Does your boss know you're here?
Moreau, go to the scene.
I'll get it authorized in the Court.
That should be enough to handle any
objections that Laveaux might have.
You'll be more comfortable inside.
I feel like a child on
her first day at school.
First day back to school,
and it's a school in
which you excel, Rebecca.
Here goes.
Well, it's not as elegant
as the one you left.
Please. It's absolutely fine.
Come with me, Rebecca.
I have to get authorization from the Court
allowing our team to
track the sniper in Paris.
It's a good place for you to start.
I think that you should be a part
of this case right from the very beginning.
Can I... I just need
a moment to freshen up.
I'll just be down the hall.
Oh, God, what am I doing here?
Okay.
I can do this.
Carl?
I'm missing something,
something right in front of me.
Well, stay on it.
We don't have much time,
and even less to go on.
There are only three victim files?
Yes, a sanitation worker,
a bicyclist, and an au pair,
but we found no connection.
Yeah, but there were five victims.
What about the officers?
You want to investigate them?
We need to know who they were.
What is it?
Two Parisian officers were murdered,
so our detectives are not going to be happy
about an outside agency
intruding on their case.
The only reason for use to be involved
would be another shooting
in a different country.
That's it, that's it.
That's what's bugging me.
"Five more will die somewhere in Europe."
If he had said, "Five more will die,"
the assumption would be that he meant Paris
and we could not be on the case.
This note has the exact right phrasing
to ensure that we are involved.
You think it was planned.
I don't know, but...
I got a hard time with
the concept of coincidence.
I've felt more welcome in
the ladies changing room.
Really? I've never been welcome in one.
Sebastian, check up there
if there is any evidence.
Arabela, come with me.
We'll talk to the witnesses.
Tommy and Eva, look at the tactical.
- Do you want to know how he did it?
- Mostly why he did it from there.
Commissaire Laveaux.
This scene is closed.
I have an authorization from the ICC.
This has nothing to do with the ICC.
Two Parisian officers were killed.
- You can't just come in here...
- You're right. You're right.
You're right. You're right. You're right.
The man who killed your comrades
left a note threatening to do
the same somewhere in Europe.
We will participate only
if the case takes us outside
of France to another country.
Until then, we want to provide assistance.
You lost two officers
and I know what you feel,
the pressure you are
under. I just want to help.
I give you my word.
Show them the scene.
Thank you.
...today in Paris where
a sniper opened fire
in a public square not far from...
...National University...
Whiskey?
...at 9:00 a.m. this morning,
- two French police officers...
- Double.
were killed, along with
three other civilians.
The victims were pronounced
dead at the scene.
The medical examiner has determined...
...were struck, execution-style,
with a single bullet to the head.
Police have not released the
identities of the victims,
- pending notification...
- Another.
of next of kin.
Tearing up our authorization
form from the Court?
Did I, or did I not?
Ah...
Seeger, this one has much to teach you.
I think you all do.
The coffee cart owner is ready
if you'd like to talk to him.
Yeah.
It's not optimal.
The other side of the square would be.
The sun would be behind him
at this time in the morning.
Maybe he isn't that experienced?
Nobody who can hit a moving target
from this range is an amateur,
especially shooting into the sun.
My guess would be military training.
A lot of it.
There are other reasons
to use this building,
though, despite the sun.
For instance, this floor
being under construction.
Like Hickman says, that's
probably no coincidence.
I'm ready for some scans.
Jaques Lemière. L-E-M-I...
The other officers have your name.
We just want to know what you remember.
Remember? I remember all of it. I...
I will never forget.
How can I ever forget something like this?
I mean, you watch television, but
you don't think it will ever...
Not to you. Other people, but
- not you...
- Jaques...
breathe.
Now, sit and take a
sip of water, and relax.
Look at that.
What?
The window frame, the one he fired from?
There's a smooth, almost
perfect covering of gases
and gunshot residue.
On what part of the frame?
All of it.
Top, bottom, sides.
It's an even dispersement
in all directions.
That's why no one heard the shots.
I had just brought out Jean's breakfast.
Jean?
Yes, the local officer who walks this area.
The one with the female officer?
Yeah. Yeah, Anette, his trainee. She was...
What happened to her was...
- Jaques, stay focused.
- Okay.
The officer arrived and ordered coffee?
No. No, I prepared his order first.
First? Before he arrived?
Yes, Jean is here every morning,
9:00 sharp. He is very methodical.
Was. He was methodical.
What happened next?
Um, I was taking another
order, and there was a shot.
A shot.
Yes, one shot, like... like a crack.
I turned, and could see
it came from this building.
I saw the smoke,
saw the rifle being pulled back in,
and I heard Anette make a
sound, and then I saw Jean.
He was...
he had been hit.
That one shot hit the officer?
Yeah.
And then Anette ran
off toward the building,
and it was only after that I...
I noticed other people on the ground,
other people that had been shot.
After the officer ran off,
the others were already shot?
Yes.
- You're sure.
- Yeah, I'm sure.
"Bellyfeel blackwhite..."
"Bellyfeel blackwhite."
"Bellyfeel..."
My team has gone over this note many times.
It doesn't seem to make much sense, huh?
We're going through 1984 as well.
Forensics came back on the original.
The note is completely clean.
No prints, no DNA.
Can't be easy to handwrite a
note and leave no prints or DNA.
Same thing I thought.
Four shots in the time he had
and from where he shot is remarkably good.
Knows his way around forensics, too.
No prints or DNA on the note.
Are we looking at a cop?
Sure starting to look that way.
And we also know why
no one heard any shots.
Yeah. The ScanGen picked up
gunshot residue and gas particles
on the window frame in a wide,
in a wide diffuse pattern.
Evenly spread, the way a
suppressor would dispense the gases.
- But they did hear one shot.
- Yes, the last one.
The one that killed the
older cop and drew the rookie.
Those officers weren't
wrong place, wrong time.
They were the targets.
The officers were the target?
The only shot that anybody heard
was the one that killed
the older police officer.
The witness said when
the officer was shot...
The others were already on the ground.
The audible shot was the last one.
He used a silencer, but he
wanted the last shot heard.
Why?
Eva said it. To draw
the young officer to him.
Why go to all this trouble
to kill two officers
he could have shot while
they were having their coffee?
Because he wanted a show.
Sir? He says he's the sniper.
He calls himself Winston Smith.
That's him. That's the note, "W.S."
I'm sorry, sir, he asked
specifically for Major Daniel.
Sebastian, trace the call.
Winston Smith?
I'm calling from a prepaid cell
phone that cannot be traced.
Then we should talk in person. Let's meet.
Do you find this funny?
No. There is nothing funny
about murder, Mr. Smith. Nothing.
- You have my note?
- Yes.
Then I'm guessing by your
attitude you also have my money?
You surely know that we need
more than a day to raise that sum.
The European Central Bank
holds money from every
country in the EU, does it not?
28 countries contributing just
over three and a half million each.
A statistical blip.
100 million is no blip.
Keep that phone with you.
I'll call you in the morning.
You asked for me. Do we know each other?
Everybody knows you.
You and your team are quite famous.
But that could be undone
doublefast, even vaporized.
What the hell was that?
I guess that's more Newspeak, like 1984.
The money is more plausible
if you split it in 28 ways.
You'll never get 28 countries to agree.
Have you ever watched a session
of the European Parliament?
I'm not asleep.
But you are in the dark.
I watched the sun go down.
There was no reason to turn the light on.
Sun went down two hours ago.
How did it go in Paris,
at the shooting scene?
Routine.
Dorn is making some calls
about getting the money.
No cases at home.
Good idea.
Agreed.
So... what is troubling you?
I'm not sure I can do this, Louis.
Everything seemed foreign to me. So...
changed.
Okay.
This work is too important.
If you're not capable,
- you should not do it...
- I didn't say I wasn't capable.
I mean...
what do you expect, the
first day after six years?
You are the one who said you want to quit.
I've never said quit in my life.
I'm sorry.
If you think I'm not capable of this job,
you're going to be very
surprised, Mr. Daniel.
Very surprised.
You will be a star.
You always are.
Okay.
Now, I'm ready for bed.
- I'm not really tired.
- Did I say tired?
Did the word tired ever
come out of my mouth?
What time is it?
I...
Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Nurse! Nurse!
What time is it?
Shh... What? What, baby?
How long?
Let me get the doctor, okay,
and then I'll explain it all to you.
Everything, okay?
Yes.
What?
Where?
Are you the team from the ICC?
- Major Louis Daniel.
- Detective Ripchen.
We appreciate the assistance.
- We've never had anything like this...
- We are not assisting.
This same man killed five
people two days ago in Paris.
This is a cross-border,
systematic, ongoing crime.
This is ours now, officially.
Your superiors have been notified.
- Well, no one told me.
- Then make the call,
and when you learn I'm right,
turn over any witness
information to Detective Seeger.
- Let me make some calls.
- Yeah.
Well, that was pretty straightforward.
We have work to do, so let's do it.
Hey, mate. McConnell, Berger,
Seeger and Vittoria from the ICC.
Yes, we heard you were coming.
All the bodies are still in
the spots where they fell?
All five.
Medics didn't work on them?
They were all shot through the
head. There was nothing to work on.
Where did the shots come from?
We don't know.
No one heard a single shot to
give us a direction to look.
He used suppressors.
There were some searches of the rooftops,
but no evidence was found in the dark.
There will be another search this morning.
I might be able to use the
ScanGen to establish a bullet path,
a trajectory through the victims.
If we can do that with two
or three, we can triangulate.
But you'll need to know the exact position
they were in before they were shot, though.
Yeah, whether they were
sitting or standing.
Did the family members stay?
Yes. They are in the mosque.
The Imam and his wife
are taking care of them.
We can see if they remember whether
they were sitting or standing.
While we scan the bodies.
Famke?
Can you put the kettle on?
I found some old books in storage.
Doesn't anyone read the
law around here anymore?
You are...?
Rebecca Daniel? We met yesterday?
Well, I know who you are, but you're here,
- and it's only 7:00 a.m.
- Don't worry.
I don't expect you to be here this early.
No, no, I love it. No one ever...
Let me put those books away.
Famke...
right now I would love
a cup of black coffee.
Okay.
Then... I want legal
precedent on multiple homicide
and all lesser included
gun and battery charges,
in Paris, France and Sofia, Bulgaria.
I want to be ready to charge this
sniper properly when they catch him.
The books can wait.
You mean if they catch him, right?
Oh, Famke, you clearly
don't know my husband.
Come on, you son of a bitch!
Funny, you usually say
that right to my face.
I don't think I've ever
caught you calling me names.
"Keep that phone with you. I
will call you in the morning."
- That's what he said to me.
- I was there.
- He lied.
- Did he? It's still morning.
He killed five more people.
He said he was going
to do that in the note.
"Five more on Thursday".
As far as I can tell,
this whole thing happened
right about midnight.
He waited until Thursday.
He didn't even give me a
chance to get the money.
"Me?"
Us.
He didn't give us a chance,
and I'm sure that he
would argue that point.
He said "on Thursday."
That has passed, but you don't really think
this is about the money, do you?
What is it about?
That we don't know yet.
Hey, lads! We might have something.
Not yet.
So, I was able to scan the bodies
and establish the path of the
bullets as they passed through them.
Arabela, can you turn
off the lights, please?
Okay, these lines are bullet trajectories.
Well, Arabela and I were able to
talk to the companions of the victims
about their position before they were shot.
Most of them were very specific.
For instance, victim one
was sitting cross-legged
on a blanket watching the movie,
victim two was sitting up with his
fiancé leaning back against him,
and victim three was walking through
the aisles coming back from the loo.
Now, when I add that
information to the modelling...
That's the highest point.
Well, this point definitely
covers the entire square.
I'll go get the ScanGen and
see if we can find any residue,
make sure this is the right spot.
Hey, don't bother.
- "Minority of one."
- Mean something to you?
It's another reference to the book.
The lead character asks if being a lunatic
is just being a minority of one.
Just because I don't like to read
doesn't mean I'm not good at it.
Guys.
Enjoying yourself?
There is nothing enjoyable
about murder, Mr. Daniel.
Nothing.
You're not interested in money.
I'll be dead long before
I can spend any of it.
What do you want?
You used to be French, right?
I am still French.
No. You're European now.
A citizen of the European Union.
We gave up our identities, Louis.
We let a bunch of bureaucrats
throw away centuries of
individuality for easier trade.
For money.
Even your team is an abomination.
What are you doing on a
rooftop in Sofia, Bulgaria?
That's how it works. How
the collective takes over.
First they change your money so
you're on shaky economic ground,
then they take over the familiar
forms of local government,
like the police.
Everything you know
changes
until you're just like a cog
in the wheel like Winston Smith.
A functionary.
Oh, Louis. Really?
Isn't that beneath you?
What is it you want?
I want my message out.
I want people to hear what I have
to say, and I want you to do it,
you and your team of bastard cops.
You want me to deliver your message?
Mm-hmm, at a press conference
before the world's cameras.
And if I don't?
I have five rounds for tomorrow,
and the day after that,
and the day after that.
How will I contact you
to give you an answer?
The press conference will be the answer.
Or not.
I'll get the message.
Arabela, tell the press
we'll make an announcement.
Yes, sir.
Wait, wait, there's...
there's something else
that we need from them.
We need to know where on the continent
that chopper's images
are broadcasting live.
Absolutely live.
He saw me. He saw me raise the finger.
Yeah. Well, most networks add a 30
second time delay for breaking news,
in case something too shocking happens.
I'd like to find out what the network
considers too shocking to show.
The list gets smaller every day.
All right, listen up.
The press doesn't like to
talk to the police in groups.
They don't want to look
like they're being bullied.
But separately, they all want to
make out like they're your friend
so they can call on you later for a story.
Any cop who trusts the press is an idiot.
Let them think you will cooperate.
Let them think you're friends.
That's right. Hand out cards,
give them your cell number.
Can I give them his cell number?
Aye, and I'll give them yours.
- Who gave you my cell number?
- You don't want to know.
Louis, finding where those
images are broadcasting live
will give us an area to look in,
but we need to find a
way to narrow that down.
- You have an idea?
- Yeah.
Based on who I think he is.
- You think?
- I'm pretty sure.
And if you're wrong?
People may die.
People are dying now.
What do you got?
Only four sources broadcast
from that particular chopper live
without any delay whatsoever.
A station covering west
coast of Spain and Portugal.
And all of Norway.
Half of Austria, and all of Switzerland.
Not Sofia? Not locally?
They weren't broadcasting anything at all.
It's too close for them. The
bodies are still on the ground.
Spain and Portugal are too far
for what he's capable of doing.
Paris, home, now Sofia,
and, apparently, home again.
Norway seems too far as well.
It is. Our best shot is
Austria or Switzerland.
You guys should head in that
direction on the chopper.
And do what, man?
Austria and Switzerland is
a pretty big search area.
Leave that to me.
What do you mean?
I'm going to do this press conference
and I'm going to narrow it down.
Didn't he say he wanted Louis
to do the press conference?
Who is doing the talking will
be the least of his problems.
Especially when he
hears what I have to say.
But won't that put more victims at risk?
Only if it doesn't work.
I'm not the guy you want on a raid
of a sniper's house anyway, am I?
And I want to meet this
Mr. Winston in person.
Sebastian, you should
stay and we can check out
any information that comes in.
We will be on the sat phone.
- Good luck.
- Thank you.
My name is Carl Hickman. I'm a
retired New York City detective
who now works for the ICC's
investigative team out of The Hague.
We are currently assisting
the Sofia, Bulgaria police
in investigating this
latest cowardly attack
by the same man who shot
a number of people in Paris
a couple of days ago.
We have actually been in
contact with this piece of sh...
with this perpetrator,
and he asked us to have
this press conference...
Cowardly's right.
Shooting people from the roof of something,
they don't even know they are targets.
Kind of like hunting though.
It's nothing like hunting...
...could make a point is by murdering
10 innocent people and demanding...
- Another.
- Mein gott. How about just asking?
...but never mind what he wants.
Here's what we're going
to talk about instead.
I'm going to tell you how
you can help us catch him.
You know how after police
catch a serial killer,
the neighbors always say
that they had no idea?
"He was such a quiet guy,
he never bothered anybody."
Well, that's not this guy.
That's not the make-up of a
personal cause perpetrator.
This guy's not quiet.
This guy bothers everybody.
You know him, but you're not friends.
In fact, he doesn't have
many people that he tolerates
and he has no friends because he's a jerk.
And he complains. Loudly.
He will have complained repeatedly
about the formation of the EU,
and about the loss of individual
identity under the new system.
And he might have said,
at different times, something
very similar to these words,
"We let a bunch of bureaucrats
toss out a century worth of individuality
just to make trade easier.
For money."
Or something like...
"The collective takes over.
You know, first they change your money,
then they change the police, and
then they change the government
and they crush you like you're nothing,
and you're just a cog in the wheel."
That's this guy.
So help us catch him,
and call the number that's flashing
on the bottom of the screen.
If this guy sounds familiar, call us.
Thank you.
Hickman.
Are you sure?
The description fits him perfectly.
Plus, the caller said this
guy's obsessed with 1984,
and that was not public info.
Did they tell you his real name?
Alexander Fuster, Austrian National.
There are some newspaper
articles about an Alexander Fuster
who fought for the French Foreign Legion
and then headed a SWAT team.
Europol referred him for prosecution
after an on-duty shooting.
Prosecution?
According to the reports,
a rookie cop misidentified
a hostage as the bad guy,
and Fuster killed him before
he had any authorization.
Maybe that's why he took his
time with the rookie in Paris.
- I'll let you know what happens.
- All right.
Austria, outside Klagenfurt,
the south border.
It's time.
The cabin is about a half kilometer in.
We have a soft perimeter right now.
Tell your men to find cover.
He's a fierce accurate long-range shot.
Alexander, come out!
Are you okay, sir?
You are completely surrounded!
Don't make this...
Tommy, how good is he?
One of the best I've ever seen. Why?
He could have shot me both times.
He shot high.
Well, you don't know that for sure.
Major, I don't think that's...
Alexander!
I am coming out of cover!
Unarmed! Let's talk!
Let me know when you have a shot.
Yes, Major.
You didn't bring me here
to shoot me without talking first.
You have something to say to me.
Come out.
Alexander.
Busybodies like you ruined my life.
I didn't pull that trigger.
I had no intention of hurting that hostage,
and Europol knew it.
And they had no authority to be in Austria,
much less telling me and
my men what I could do.
Europol,
Interpol,
and now your ICC.
Leave the local police
alone, can you do that?
The world is getting smaller.
Every day, a bit smaller.
And swallowing people.
Swallowing lives, swallowing individuality.
I am not losing my identity,
it's growing.
I am a citizen,
not just of France,
but a citizen of Europe, of the world.
When people realize that Italian sergeants
and Irish cops are bullying
their sovereign citizens
and killing people they have no
jurisdiction over, they will rebel.
No one has to be killed by anyone.
I have a shot.
Me, too.
I have two snipers of my own,
and right now, they both have shots.
Are they good?
Very.
Because if they can't get
a shot off before I do,
then it's lights out for you.
- For both of us.
- But the difference is,
I am prepared to die.
I've mailed manifestos to all
the major papers of Europe.
I've taped videos for the news networks.
You don't have to die for
your message to be heard.
Your smaller world is a visual one.
Today, you pretty much do
have to die to make your point.
You made your point...
for nothing.
Michel, we're going to
go with terrorism as well.
Rebecca...
we will not be prosecuting the sniper.
I'm sorry?
The team, he made them kill him.
Is Louis all right?
Oh, fine. They're on the way back home.
Good.
Thank you, Rebecca.
- Hey.
- Did the team go home?
- Yeah, yeah, everybody just left.
Did, um...
Anne-Marie's mom, did she come
by today and... and get her stuff?
- No.
- Oh.
She called.
She came all the way to Amsterdam and then
she couldn't face the office.
She said coming here made
it too real, too final.
Shari, my... my friend from the carnival,
she... she woke up last night.
Oh, she did? Why didn't you tell me?
Ah, just, uh, didn't find the time today.
How is she?
The doctors say that she's better than...
than they'd... than they'd hoped.
But...?
She wants to know how
long she was unconscious.
I think she really wants
to know what happened.
Fair question.
Yeah. It's the answer that I don't like.
What's the answer?
Rough stuff happens to people
around me, Louis, good people.
I'm not crying about it.
It's just true.
I have known you for years.
Nothing bad's happened to me.
I said "good people."
Want me to come with you,
to be your moral support?
No.
Some walks you've got to
do on your own, you know?
Yes. I do know.
Thank you.
Should be for everyone to see.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org